Welcome to case number
1580.43F, translator.
Today’s case involves one
Winston who resides in
Westholt. He is currently
charged with: Treason.

The Department of Peace
has nominated Prosecutor
Myers to seek out the
truth of the matter.
Please note that one of
our trusted judges will
be monitoring this case.
She currently resides
behind you.

So, as always, do your
very best to make the
best translation. Please
place this note in the
box beside you to to
indicate your dedication
to the truth.


By clause 1.45 of our
standard procedures we
will now administer our
basic translation
competency test. This may
appear to be a simple
test, but please treat it
with the same respect you
will treat our trial.

Some translations may be
simple and have a clear
answer: The sky {red^1|blue^2}.
The above statement is
*130*{false|true}.

Some translations may
have context clues to
inform what word should
be used: When I went to
bed I draped {curtains^1|blankets^2}
over my body to keep me
warm. The above statement
seems {false|false}.

Some translations may not
have a clear answer:
Today I feel
good/something. The above
statement is
vague/unclear.

These cases are dangerous
as they have the power to
affect how we understand
a circumstance, and
thereby can determine
someone’s guilt or
innocence. We ask that
you take great care to
seek the truth in these
situations, translator.

Good afternoon, everyone.
My name is Myders. Today
I will be leading the
prosecution of Winston
whom you see beside me.
Winston stands accused of
treason. This is not a
crime that our justice
system treats lightly.

His disregard for our way
of order stands in
contrast to everything we
have built over the
decades; to support his
work is to support chaos.
The evidence presented
will be Winston’s very
own writing.

His writing, an
unnecessary endeavor in
itself, has circulated to
other citizens and is
filling their minds with
unlawful concepts. Today
we will examine the first
chapter of his writing,
in which he advocates
violence and public
displays of conversation.


1234567890123456789012345
Uhh, hello. I was told to
open with an introduction
so here I am. My name is
Winston. Apparently my
work has caused quite the
uproar, I really wasn’t
aware this was happening.
I didn’t want people to
get hurt or put in prison


I’m sorry this is all
very
overwhelming/annoying.
Let me start over. My
name is Winston. I do not
believe that I am guilty
of the crimes I am
accused of.

Yes, I wrote a book of
musings. Yes, it is set
in our world and is about
things I think could
happen, but it is also a
work of fiction. I’m
being treated like I
actually committed the
crimes that I wrote
about.

15->

Let’s begin with an
overview of this chapter.
Winston has agreed to
provide an introduction
to this chapter, this
should speed the process
along.

I was told you have read
the book, translator. I
don’t know why they want
me to tell you what it’s
about. But, I will do
this if it helps me
though. The book tells a
story of a woman in the
first person. Please take
a look at this excerpt
from the beginning of the
book


My name is Joanna and I
want more. Not more
entertainment or freetime
Not more rest or
relaxation. I want more
of something else. The
desire has always been
with me and I believe
always will.


I really can’t tell you
what this thing is or how
to find it but this
doesn’t change my
thought. In a similar
way, does the dog not
knowing the name of her
food make her hunger any
less real?



The writing can be dense.
I know that us Lowers
usually don’t talk like
this and the words might
be a little confusing.
So, uhh, sorry about the
confusion if there is
any.

Translator, please
examine this excerpt we
believe to be causing
problems in Westholt.

After the third knock on
my neighbor's door my
anxiety got the better of
me. Suddenly, my great
plan to simply speak to
the woman who resides
next door to me looked
more insane than I ever
thought possible. What
would I say if she opened
the door?

My feet wanted to run and
it began to get the
better of me. As I
stepped backward to walk
home, my foot searched
for where I thought the
ground would be but came
up short.

I lost my footing and
tried to regain to by
stepping forward. In my
confusion I pushed
forward and broke my
momentum with my
neighbors front window.
The glass shattered. My
feet finally got the
courage to take me
somewhere else, so I ran
home.

Now, Translator. Recently
in Westholt, there have
been multiple reports of
certain pieces of homes
being vandalized, much
like you have read in
this passage. It may seem
obvious to you and I, but
Winston fails to see that
his work is inspiring
these vandals and
lawbreakers.

This is obscene. I can’t
understand how someone
might believe that my
work has inspired these
‘vandals’. Not only was
Joanna not trying to
break the window, but
even if she had, one does
not simply copy what they
read.

That will be up for the
judge to decide. Let us
continue with our
analysis of the book,
shall we?

The days had weighed on
me. Since my incident
next door, I had been
consumed by shame. If my
first attempt at talking
to someone was breaking a
window, then I would most
likely never try again.
Not only that, but what
would she think finding
her house harmed?

I couldn’t deal with the
guilt any longer. I felt
the only way to right
this wrong was to go and
fix this window. I have
never done such a thing,
but how hard could it be
to at least put the glass
back together?

As I kneeled on the wood
flooring failing to piece
together what seemed like
an endless amount of
glass, my ears twitched
at the sound of someone
approaching. To my
terror, the sound came
from inside the house. I
made eye contact with her
as she did to me.

I frantically darted my
head down trying to think
of a reason to explain
why a stranger was
currently poking around
her porch. I came up
short. This was the first
time I had ever tried to
speak to someone outside
of work, which in itself
was only a few hours a
week.

Seeing that neither of us
were moving, my blood
began to rush. My mouth
drew breathe as I
prepared to calm the
situation. ‘Your window
was broken’, what I said
couldn’t have been more
than a whisper but it
felt like I was
screaming.

To my surprise she spoke
back, ‘Do you know how to
fix it?’ My head tilted
as I looked down at the
pile of glass I had made.
Still avoiding eye
contact, “no, I don’t”.
Again, I wanted to run.

Before I could work up
the courage to do so she
spoke again, “I know how
to fix things like this.
I will complete this job.
You can go.” Seeing an
opportunity, I took it.
My eyes remained locked
to the ground as I turned
around to go home, this
time minding the space
between the steps.


Pressure began rising in
my cheeks and eyes as I
increased the stride to
walk home. The shame I
had felt earlier this
day, now multiplied
father than I could have
anticipated, would sit
with me for days.

It twisted and turned
while I slept, when I
woke and as I went about
my day.The events of that
day, threatened to crush
me.

Translator, please take
special care in this next
section to avoid
misinterpretations of the
truth.


As the days passed I
could rarely keep my mind
from replaying and
recounting the events
next door. I thought over
and over again about what
could have been done
differently or if I
should have even tried to
fix it in the first
place.

As pointless as these
thoughts were I could not
stop them from happening.
During the middle of the
week I was plodding along
towards my home after a
days work at
deconstruction plant.

It was shortly after noon
as the sun shone directly
down on my neck, casting
little shadow in front of
me. As I drew closer to
my home I noticed a board
jutting out from the side
of my house. My heart
rate increased as did my
walking pace.

Clearly this was an act
of retaliation. The board
was broken off in such a
way that demanded
attention. As I studied
the splinters of my
house, I felt someone
approach from behind me.


My face contorted as I
prepared for whatever
punishment I knew would
be coming my way. My
neighbor spoke, “looks
like someone has hurt
your house too.” The way
the words arrived on my
ears felt like she knew
more than she led on.

Not knowing how to
respond I too spoke in
words we both could
understand, work
language. My lips parted,
“I don’t know how to fix
this.” I still faced
forward, too scared to
turn around and face the
justice I felt was
coming.

“I can fix this as well.”
the neighbor said. The
confusion forced my body
around. I saw what looked
to be a constructors belt
around her waist. Of
course she knows how to
fix all these things,
that’s her job. But why
was she here?

Why would she offer to
help me? Before this
internal dialogue took me
any more than it already
had she spoke again,
“These things breaking
may not stop happening.
If you want to, I can
teach you how to fix
them.”

Again, the way she spoke
made me feel like she
meant more than the words
she said. I realized that
I was taking too long to
respond so I blurted,
“Yes! That would help
me.” My neighbor smiled
in a way that I’m not
sure I’ve seen before.

Translator, we have been
receiving reports of
residents of Westholt
performing public
displays of conversation.
This is also a crime we
do not treat lightly.

Now, before Winston’s
book made its rounds we
were experiencing
approximately a 3% crime
rate in the area.
However, the crime rate
has recently risen to
nearly 14%. There is no
question in my mind that
these changes are linked.

This may be a crime yes,
but is this really that
horrible of an act?
Taboo, surely, but a
crime worth serious
punishment and
imprisonment?

Furthermore, how can
someone simply point to
the book of a lower and
claim that a rising crime
rate is the cause?
Perhaps the area is
simply riddled with
problems? Perhaps there
has been a small number
of crime committers that
have been very active. It
is all very inconclusive.

I figured Winston may
have taken issue with the
base line facts, a
subjective man himself.
Well, let’s bring in a
criminal to prove our
point.

Allow me introduce Miss
Mellen. She also resides
in Westholt, near the
epicenter of this crime
wave. She was caught in
open conversation with
another resident.

In addition to this she
was in possession of a
note that read ‘I want
more’. A quote taken
directly from the first
portion of your book,
Winston. Miss Mellen,
what do you have to say
for yourself?

Please let me go.
Translator, do you have
the power to do that? I
just want to go back to
Westholt and live. I’ll
stop talking, I’ll stop
reading. Just let me
leave. Do you see the
bruises on my brow? I...

Miss Mellen, I apologize
for any harm that may
have come to you on your
journey here. I have
little control over those
who work in other
departments.

If it was my choice, we
would follow procedure
and simply transport you
here. However, you are
now a convicted criminal
and owe the court an
explanation for the
crimes you have
committed.

I don’t know what to say.
I never thought I would
be put in jail. I really
didn’t even want to go
outside that day. I ran
into someone who was very
passionate and excited.
He saw me and immediately
ran up to speak. Neither
of us had met each other
before, but I think I had
seen him in town before.


He just began talking.
About nothing really.
Before we were caught, he
handed me this note. Then
everything happened very
quickly. I was hurried
into a car and driven to
the city. I don’t know
what else to say about
this all. Can I please
leave? I don’t think I’m
of any more use here.

Winston, perhaps you see
how your work has
effected this woman. Even
if she herself was not a
crusader for the crimes
you encouraged, she is
still involved and still
culpable for the crime.

Translator, this woman is
terrified. I never meant
for this to happen. I
can’t sit here and do
nothing. Please just tell
the prosecutor whatever
he wants to hear from me
to allow her to leave.

I Winston believe that
Miss Mellen is guilty of
the crimes she is accused
of. It was an effect of
my book/her own freewill
